# There Is No Hiding Sleep Deprevation

## Abstract
Sleep deprivation, defined as getting anything less than 7 hours of sleep, is generally known to have adverse effects on physical and neural functions. However, it is an area with many moving pieces behind the scenes that are not simply cut and dry, so establishing a better understanding, as this study aims to do, is quite important. The goal of this study is to predict the presence of sleep deprivation using common measurements of cognitive ability. Using the information provided in the files, the assessments of nine individuals before and after a 24-hour period of sleep deprivation became a dataset of 18 total observations. By comparing the results of the two tests, based on factors such as reaction time and oxygen levels, a model was constructed using a test-train split of 75% to 25% to classify observations as sleep-deprived or not. Using that model, powered by the selected variables of interest, sleep deprivation or a lack thereof was correctly identified in 80 percent of observations. Furthermore, it seemed as though measures like attention accuracy and reaction time were stronger indicators of sleep-deprived individuals compared to something like working memory. Successfully predicting sleep deprivation could be impactfully applied in many ways, primarily regarding the analysis of neurological disorders. Visible symptoms of sleep deprivation are similar to those of other medical conditions, so being able to determine whether sleep deprivation is the culprit may speed up the process for someone to get the proper treatments and solutions.

## Data Source
Mukli, Peter, et al. "Effect of 24-hour sleep deprivation on cerebral hemodynamics and cognitive performance" (version 1.0.0). PhysioNet (2021). RRID:SCR_007345. https://doi.org/10.13026/669h-cx11

## Usage Notes
To successfully run the .ipynb file, the CSV file and the zip file containing all data from the study must be downloaded from the URL link provided in the data source into the working directory. The code is designed to unzip the file and extract the data. 
